---
title:       "Week Four"
subtitle:    "Extra Credit"
description: ""
date:        "2024-03-06"
author:      "Charles Vosloo"
image:       ""
tags:        ["tag1", "tag2"]
categories:  ["Tech" ]
---
## Extra Credit
### Three tasks were included here:    
     
     

1. Package Everything in Helm
2. Implement Persistent Storage
3. Implement Basic CI/CD Pipeline  

4. openFaas 
 
I have added the fourth.
In the book and in the previous iteration of this challange one of the steps was to add a visitor counter to the website using a  serverless function with AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Functions or Azure functions. I wanted to do this in Civo using openFaas. OpenFaaS (Function as a Service) is an open-source serverless framework that simplifies deploying event-driven functions and microservices to Kubernetes. 

How does one implemeent severless on civo?
1. knative
2. openFaas

Here are two ways to run OpenFaas:
1. faas-netes
2. faasd

[fass-netes]       [faasd]

faasd use - uses containerd
It would be much simpler to write the counter feaure into the ecommerce code base without the use of a function. These features would make my static site dynamic.  Is my php site static? 
Maybe the strategy of using OpenFaas is that once set up it enbles many more possibilites?
Here are some better use cases of how I could use opneFaas on my eccomerce web  application:
Image Processing: Use OpenFaaS to offload image processing tasks such as resizing, cropping, or watermarking images uploaded by users. This can help improve performance and reduce server load.

Email Notifications: Trigger OpenFaaS functions to send email notifications for order confirmations, shipping updates, or promotional campaigns. This allows for asynchronous processing and scalability.

Inventory Management: Implement OpenFaaS functions to handle inventory updates, stock alerts, or product availability checks. This can be useful for real-time inventory management and synchronization across multiple channels.

Payment Processing: Utilize OpenFaaS for payment processing tasks such as currency conversion, fraud detection, or generating payment receipts. This can help streamline payment workflows and ensure compliance with security standards.

Analytics and Insights: Implement OpenFaaS functions to perform analytics and generate insights from ecommerce data, such as customer behavior analysis, sales forecasting, or personalized recommendations.

Content Management: Use OpenFaaS functions to automate content management tasks such as content generation, translation, or content moderation. This can improve efficiency and consistency in managing product descriptions, blog posts, or user-generated content.